The player rolls the dice and after the dice have come to rest, calculate the sum of the dots on the two upward faces . The player wins if the sum is 7 or 11 on the first throw and the player loses if the sum is 2,3,or 12.
On the other hand if the sum is 4,5,6,8,9,or 10 then that becomes the player's "point". You must continue rolling the dice till you "make your point".The player loses by rolling a 7 before making the point.
So what the program does once it starts executing is :
It first randomizes the random number generator using the current time with the function srand(time(NULL));. 
Then it uses the rand() function to create 2 random numbers for the variables, dice1 and dice2 between the numbers 1 and 6.
After that ,the random numbers saved in these two variables are added and then assigned to a variable sum.
Then using a switch the program check the output of the variable sum.The player wins the game if the variable sum generates a number 7 or 11 on the first try and the value of the variable gameStatus is assigned with the variable WON and the if statement equated to the variable WON is executed and prints the statement "Player Wins.".
But if the first value of the variable sum ends up being 2,3,12 the player loses the game and the value of the variable gameStatus is assigned with the variable LOST and the if else statement corresponding to it is executed and prints the statement "Player losses.".
If the value of the variable sum is 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, or 10 on the first try, the program executes the default statement of the switch then that sum gets assigned to the variable myPoint and the variable gameStatus gets assigned with the variable CONTINUE and then it prints the players point.
The gameStatus remains as CONTINUE it keeps generating random numbers for the variables dice1 and dice2 and produces the sum of these two variables. During this if the values of sum becomes equal to the value of the player's point the player wins the game and the abovementioned condition for WON is executed. Whereas if the sum becomes 7 during this loop the player loses the game and the above mentioned condition for LOST is executed.
So this is how the game works according to the code given to us.
